# Modelling-and-Real-time-Simulation-in-Machine-Automation
The aim of this exercise is to build a simulation model of a 4 actuator degree-of-freedom (DOF) hydraulic loader and to simulate it in real-time computer. This simulation model shall take into account the dynamics of the multi-body mechanical system as well as the dynamics (fluid compressibility, pressure generation) of the oil hydraulic system powering the loader. The loader will be driven in man-in-the-loop by commanding the spool position of the proportional valves in each of the four actuators. SimMechanics (Second Generation) and Simulink (from MATLAB software package) will be employed to model the multi-body mechanical system and the hydraulics respectively. After completing the offline simulation (i.e. simulation running under Matlab/Simulink environment), the simulation model will be compiled (using Matlab/Simulink Coder) and deployed to a real-time computer. In this real-time simulation platform, the commanding signals (spool displacements) will be generated by joysticks connected to a development PC, which will send the joystick axes positions to the real-time computer through an Ethernet UDP/IP connection. At the same time, the outputs (joint angles) of the simulation will be sent from the real-time computer back to the development computer via UDP/IP. In the development computer, the virtual visualization software, IHA3D, will read these joint values and render a 3D graphical representation of the forwarder loader in real-time.

## 1. General Description
This system is used for loading and unloading the logs of wood, it is also called as knuckleboom loaders. Hydraulically operated boom is mounted on to the trailer and it is towed by the truck tractor. 
### System Features 
Hydraulic log forwarder features: 
* It is diesel driven. 
* The work and transport functions on the machine are obtained through the supply pressure from the pump 
* An articulated steering and forward-reverse is available for the operator while operating the loader and also during the transportation. 
* A hydrostatic wheel transmission with variable displacement pump and motor, automatically limits the driving force and thereby preventing the engine to stall. Therefore, it offers a very smooth operation. 
* The boom replicates the features of the human arm, the boom is rotated by rack and pinion mechanism. The hydraulic loader consist of 4 cylinders. 
* The end of the boom is attached with the hydraulic grapple, which is used to pick and place the log. 
* These machines are used to load the huge logs of wood into a truck, the environment in which these machines function are mostly in forest areas. 
* The operator or user controls the boom by 2 joysticks installed in front of the chair armrests. This system utilizes remote control system and permits both multi-function speeds and delicate maneuvering. 

### High-level architecture 
The major components and structure in this system are: 
* Diesel Engine: it is the main source of power to the system 
* Pumps: Flow and pressure is generated through the pump. 
* Cylinder: It acts as an actuator, transmitting the flow energy into mechanical energy. 
* Valves: The pressure is controlled with pressure control valves, while modelling the hydraulic circuit we have used 4/3 directional valve. 
* Pillar: it is structure which supports lift, tilt and extension. The base of the pillar consists of rack and pinion which gives the rotational movement for the whole system. 
* Lift: As the name implies it helps in lifting, it is connected to the tilt with the 4 bar linkage. 
* Tilt: this structure comprises of extensions and as well as helps in changing the angle to reach the work part. 
* Extensions: it is a structure that has linear motion that is to extend and retract. There are 2 extensions one is driven by the hydraulic force and other one driven by the chain drive. 
* Grapple: it is the end part, which helps in grabbing the log and placing it.

## 2. Implementation Plan
